the Prime Minister Julia Gillard has
defended Indonesia's role in the rescue
effort sparked by the latest asylum
seeker boat disaster up to 100 asylum
seekers are still missing after their
boat sank two days ago on route to
Christmas Island some of the 54
passengers rescued by the Australian
Navy have already arrived on Indonesia's
mainland ms gillard says that she
believes Indonesian authorities did the
best they could and that this latest
incident should reinforce just how
dangerous these journeys can be it's a
big ocean it's a dangerous ocean we've
seen too many people lose their lives
trying to make the journey to Australia
almost 600 asylum seekers have now been
intercepted in just the past week with
the vessel carrying 31 people found near
the cocos islands last night a frantic
search and rescue operation is underway
off the intonation coast after a
merchant vessels spotted asylum seekers
in the water or the very latest let's go
to Canberra now Ashley Gillard morning
ash good morning to both again yes the
distressed vessel first sent out calls
to authorities saying they're in trouble
yesterday morning the merchant vessels
spotted survivors around three thirty
this morning East Coast time so it looks
like these waters these survivors have
been in the water for a very long time
now it's unclear just how many people
may have already been rescued by this
merchant vessel and how many people
still remain in the water extra backup
help is on its way to Indonesian search
vessels should be in the area very
shortly a second merchant vessel is also
on its way to assist as well to
Australian aircraft are also going to
help but they're not leaving christmas
island until first light west coast
times that's still another couple of
hours away and then it'll take those
aircraft a couple of hours to get on the
scene as well it is believed there
around 150 people who were on board this
vessel we'll keep you updated with the
details as they come to light it comes
as officially signs Australia officially
signs that deal with Naru to reopen the
detention center there of course this is
exactly what everybody
you